Mistry 
Yaj Mistry
Ms.Liou
ENG 1D0
October 25 2022


“Spiderman Into the Spiderverse” Movie Analysis
        Bob Persichetti, Peter Ramsey, and Rodney Rothman’s Spiderman: Into the Spiderverse was released on December 14, 2018, it is still a phenomenal movie years later, from the plot to the art style. It has broken numerous records such as having the largest crew working on a movie, winning the Academy Award for the best-animated film of 2018, and many more. Into the Spiderverse was the start of a new age in film technology making it so that instead of trying to imitate real life to be more stylized. This essay will go over the plot points of this outstanding movie, the theme, and more. To begin, here is a quick summary of the film.


Miles is a very talented child whose parents have set very high expectations for him which he struggles to meet. He goes to his uncle for an escape, he takes him to put up some graffiti. While they leave, Miles gets bit by a spider. The next morning Miles notices that something is different then he realizes that he is another Spider-man. He goes back to the subway where he finds Spider-man there fighting a giant monster. Spider-man decides to teach Miles but he dies in the ensuing fight. Before he dies he gives Miles a key that will stop a giant machine from firing. Miles, with the guidance of a comic book, jumps off a building to try to learn his new powers but fails. During the fall he destroys the key. Miles then goes to Spider-man’s grave but finds Spider-man #2 there, he ties him up and tries to interrogate him but he escapes where he decides to teach Miles how to be Spider-man, while they repair the key. They find out that Spider-man #2 is from a parallel dimension, his cells will disintegrate if he stays here for too long. Along the way, they meet more Spider-people and repair the key. Right before they all leave to destroy a machine that will merge parallel dimensions, they all get attacked by Kingpin, the antagonist, and his group. One of Kingpin’s people is right about to kill Miles but he takes off his mask, the man who has him takes his mask off and we see that it is his uncle. Kingpin shoots him. Miles takes his uncle to a nearby alleyway where he sees him die. Miles runs away to his room, where the spider-people find him and tell him that he is not ready. Miles asks when he will know when he is ready, and they say that he will not, it is a leap of faith. Miles then decides to take that leap of faith in the most beautiful sequence in the movie. After this Miles heads to Kingpin’s tower to help everyone else stop Kingpin. After everyone says their goodbyes, Miles fights Kingpin and wins the battle. The movie ends with Miles giving his backstory.


The inciting incident of the movie is when Miles gets bitten because after that things start to get more intense. One of the rising actions in the movie is when Miles meets the second Spider-man. Another rising action is when Miles' uncle dies, this is a very important point in the movie because this motivates Miles to take his leap of faith. The climax is the leap of faith and continues to the end of the Kingpin fight. This is when the movie gets most intense. After this everything starts to die down. One of the falling actions of the movie is Miles hugging his dad because it happens after the climax of the movie and it helps go toward the resolution more than anything else.


        The fully stylized comic-type art style contributes heavily to the mood and tone of the movie. The art style of the movie keeps it light-hearted while keeping the conflict in the back of our heads. Instead of making it feel long and tiring the art style keeps the movie exciting while keeping you on the edge of your seat. The movie's soundtrack works along with the art style to keep the viewer engaged while keeping the mood just as tense and suspenseful as it has been in the entire movie.


        The two different types of conflict in the movie are internal and external. The internal conflict is inside Miles. As the movie goes on Miles starts to come to terms that he is Spider-man, this is a major conflict that keeps Miles from being Spider-man. The type of external conflict is group vs person or person vs person, the group is all of the Spider-people, and the person is Kingpin. The reason for this is that the main conflict of the story is that Kingpin is trying to bring his family back, one of the consequences of his doing that is that he has to merge multiple dimensions, which is a bad thing.


        Miles at the start of the movie is a coward and smart. As the movie goes on Miles’ cowardice turns into bravery, especially near the end where he takes a leap of faith. Another reason is that he did not accept that he is Spider-man because of how sudden it was along with having been stripped of all of his friends. Mile is smart because he got into Visions Academy, a school for gifted children. 


        The theme of the movie is to never give up, no matter how hard it is because things will get better. The movie inspired me to see things all the way through to the end especially the tasks that seem hard. An example of this is during the first Covid lockdown when it first started I did not have the motivation to do anything, then I re-watched Into the Spiderverse, it gave me the motivation I needed to do things that I would not have done if I did not watch the movie.


        In conclusion, Spider-man Into the Spiderverse is an amazing movie because of its complex plot, art, music, and direction. The movie has broken multiple records and set a new industry standard for animation. The plot of the movie meshes very well with the art style and tone of the movie. The art style keeps the viewers entertained while keeping the conflict in mind.